# imperial_college_AI_capstone
Capstone Project for Imperial College Professional Certificate in ML and AI

Section 1: project overview
The code in this project is submitted as part of a Black-Box Bayesian Optimisation contest. The contest requires entrants to build and optimise eight machine learning models, within a simulated black box environment, that seek to iteratively find the maxima of each of the eight unknown  functions.
The goal of the project is to get entrants to use Bayesian optimisation techniques to simulate functions where only inputs and outputs are known. The function structures will be unknown until competition completion and entrants must use all the tools at their disposable to simulate these functions as closely as possible with data sets that increase weekly based on submitted inputs and returned outputs.
This type of competition has real world relevancy in that there are numerous business problems in which the exact mapping between inputs and outputs is unknown and must be discovered for a range of business scenarios such as predictions.
This type of exercise has real career-enhancing benefits as it allows entrants free reign to obtain a solution by enabling them to work independently as they take decisions to reach their goal. This is particularly useful in career development where working with ambiguity can be a regular occurrence.

Section 2: inputs and outputs
To simulate each target function, the code expects the following:
1.	A set of initial input data points for each function. These are provided to all entrants for each function. The points range in size from 2 to 8 dimensions.
2.	On a weekly basis a new set of points are generated by the code and the entrants submit these to the black box to receive new outputs. This data is then fed back into the code for further analysis after merging with the previous data. Example data and formats are as follows:
-	Inputs
Function 1: np.float64(0.011470, 0.018101)
Function 5: np.float64(0.231923, 0.700501, 0.976725, 0.937361)
Function 8: np.float64(0.170430, 0.210457, 0.269662, 0.074554, 0.897715, 0.525670, 0.065210, 0.863551)
-	Outputs
Function 1: np.float64(9.750437131846301e-231)
Function 5: np.float64(1486.8528505729428)
Function 8: np.float64(9.8734999990304)
3.	Examples of the data and format of points submitted to the black-box optimiser on a weekly basis are as follows:
Function 1: 0.011470-0.018101
Function 5: 0.231923-0.700501-0.976725-0.937361
Function 8: 0.170430-0.210457-0.269662-0.074554-0.897715-0.525670-0.065210-0.863551


Section 3: challenge objectives
The objective is to explore a range of functions and formulate methods for identifying their maxima. The functions are unknown so a range of surrogate models and acquisition functions must be tested. Hyperparameters associated with these must be tuned in conjunction.
Section 4: technical approach
The technical approach has so far evolved as follows:
1.	In the first round I largely avoided hyperparameter tuning and focussed more on surrogate model selection. 
2.	In the second week I started looking at hyperparameter tuning and experimented with white noise values to prevent overfitting. This showed some improvements but the impacts on most functions wasn’t significant.
3.	In the third week I explored visualisation of the functions based on the data received and processed to date. This was in the form of graphs that mapped the outputs and inputs. The input points were collapse to a scalar value that was the result of measuring the distance between each point and argmax for each function.
a.	This was used to validate the choice of surrogate based on how rugged or smooth the graphs were.
b.	Visually identify the best next approach for the acquisition functions, i.e. exploitation or exploration.
c.	Visually identify the best next direction of exploitation and exploration
d.	Alter surrogate models, if required, based on (a)
e.	Guide acquisition functions and tune hyperparameters based on (b) and (c)
Currently only Bayesian Optimisation techniques have been used. However, as the data sets grow larger, a number of additional techniques are likely to be incorporated. Including:
-	Improving the classification of the data into rugged or smooth categories by using SVM. The code can then focus on selecting the most appropriate surrogate type along with optimal hyperparamters.
-	Investigate the use of decision trees, or similar classification methods, to test the points suggested by the acquisition functions. If the classifier identifies the points as sub-optimal then the acquisition functions can be run iteratively until an improved set of points is identified. 
Exploitation vs Exploration
For the time being, a decision is made between exploration and exploitation based on the generated graphs. With some of the visualisations the function(s) decline rapidly to near zero and it’s clear where the next direction of investigation should be. With others its not so obvious and these are taken on a case-by-case basis.
This method has injected a level of clarity into my approach, and is likely to bear more fruit as more data points are received and a more systematic method of parameter tuning should evolve from this.
